Advantages of Spring:


1) Application context and dependency injection:


Spring manages application context for each of our classes and allows dependency injection

(Depedency injection is a way to manage a shared instance of a class among multiple different classes)


2) Data access:

Spring makes working with JDBC easier and abstracts away all the low level detail of working with a database

through Hibernate and the Java Persistence API

3) Spring MVC:

Spring MVC allows us to created structured applications in the MVC paradigm, ability to easily build web applications


Spring Framework projects:

Spring Framework Projects
The Spring Framework is actually a collection of modular projects. "Spring Core", which we just looked at, is the cornerstone of the Spring Framework Projects. Each of these projects has a specialty in building enterprise class applications. Let's take a brief overview of the major Spring Projects.

Major Spring Projects
Spring MVC
Spring MVC is designed for building web based applications. This is the workhorse of the web. It is the most common framework to build Java based web applications on.

Spring Data
Spring Data is a collection of smaller projects who's aim is to make persistence to a datastore agnostic. They're developing a common API layer allowing you to use the Repository pattern with traditional relational databases, NoSQL databases, and even map-reduce applications. Spring Data is all things data.

Spring Security
Need to secure your application? Spring Security is the tool you want to use.

Spring Boot
Spring Boot is a rapid application development framework, which allows you to quickly get running with Spring.

Spring Batch
Spring Batch is just as it sounds, Batch. Yes, companies still do batch processing.

Spring Integration
As enterprise class applications become more complex, more independent systems are involved. Spring Integration makes it easy to introduce a message based architecture into your application.

Conclusion
These are just the major Spring Framework projects. When doing Spring development in the enterprise, it is likely you will be using one or more of these projects.