Design Patterns

Scope:

			
Class 	Scope:

specifies whether the pattern applies
primarily to classes or to objects. Class patterns deal with relationships between
classes and their subclasses. These relationships are established through
inheritance, so they are static—fixed at compile-time.


Object  Scope:

Object patterns deal with
object relationships, which can be changed at run-time and are more dynamic. Almost
all patterns use inheritance to some extent. So the only patterns labeled "class
patterns" are those that focus on class relationships. Note that most patterns
are in the Object scope.


Creational class patterns defer some part of object creation to subclasses, while
Creational object patterns defer it to another object. The Structural class
patterns use inheritance to compose classes, while the Structural object patterns
describe ways to assemble objects. The Behavioral class patterns use inheritance
to describe algorithms and flow of control, whereas the Behavioral object patterns
describe how a group of objects cooperate to perform a task that no single object
can carry out alone.


Concepts for design Patterns:

Object Granularity: Size of object, how much it is used.

Dynamic Binding:

Dynamic binding means that issuing a request doesn't commit you to a particular
implementation until run-time. Consequently, you can write programs that expect
an object with a particular interface, knowing that any object that has the correct
interface will accept the request. Moreover, dynamic binding lets you substitute
objects that have identical interfaces for each other at run-time. This
substitutability is known as polymorphism, and it's a key concept in
object-oriented systems. It lets a client object make few assumptions about other
objects beyond supporting a particular interface. Polymorphism simplifies the
definitions of clients, decouples objects from each other, and lets them vary
their relationships to each other at run-time.

Why Use Interfaces?

There are two benefits to manipulating objects solely in terms of the interface
defined by abstract classes:
1. Clients remain unaware of the specific types of objects they use, as long
as the objects adhere to the interface that clients expect.
2. Clients remain unaware of the classes that implement these objects. Clients
only know about the abstract class(es) defining the interface.
This so greatly reduces implementation dependencies between subsystems that it
leads to the following principle of reusable object-oriented design:
Program to an interface, not an implementation.
Don't declare variables to be instances of particular concrete classes. Instead,
commit only to an interface defined by an abstract class.


Composition over inheritance:

Favoring object
composition over class inheritance helps you keep each class encapsulated and
focused on one task. Your classes and class hierarchies will remain small and
will be less likely to grow into unmanageable monsters. On the other hand, a design
based on object composition will have more objects (if fewer classes), and the
system's behavior will depend on their interrelationships instead of being defined
in one class.
That leads us to our second principle of object-oriented design:
Favor object composition over class inheritance.
